designintervention.md, before:

# design intervention

2am.

Erica closed all her tabs,shut her eyes and cleared her mind. She could feel the blue light leaving her body, at least she she thought it was.

She opened her eyes and clicked on an orange diamond icon. She scrolled through the fonts and picked a font called:

> Neue Haas Unica! Haven’t used this one before! Finally, I can put that $400 to good use.

Erica spent the next 2.5 hours experimenting with this font. Adjusted line-spacing. Set a comfortable line-length, never extending beyond 75 characters. Fixed the spacing between individual characters on larger font sizes.

3:43am.

> Erica: Fuck, I always do this on Sunday. Ugh, I’m going to be late tomorrow. 9AM is too early for people to be working.

Erica was not late to work the next day, but this was not the Monday she was expecting.

As Erica approaches the door, she notices how awkwardly silent the office is. Erica quickly brushed it off.

> Erica(chucking): Ha, and I thought EYE was going to be late for work.”

Erica was proud that not only did she start her side project last night, but she also arrived to work on time. Double productivity, challenge complete.

When she entered the office, familiar faces were sitting in a circle. All eyes locked on to her as the door slammed shut.

> Erica: "Umm, what's going on? I don't remember the stand-up being moved to 10. And why is Tobin here?"
>
> Bill: "Erica, we decided to cancel work today for something more pressing."
>
> Benn: "Yeah, we realized that you're struggling with--I don't know...how do we describe it.?
>
> Bill: "You want your designs to make the world a better place, but you can't. And so you go on Twitter and rant about it. You even wrote that long Medium post. We're all very worried about you, Erica."
>
> Benn: "Yeah and you make everyone feel like shit!"

Erica rolled her eyes and tried to play it cool, but she was furious inside. How dare they throw this at me like this. Ugh, just a bunch of privileged cis white males.

She wanted to seem like she could hold her own fort though, so she started to look for cracks in their attack.

> Erica: Benn, what is that on your lap? Is that a....manual?
>
> Benn (excitedly): Ah yes! I made this last week after Denise’s intervention went so well. I posted it on Dribbble too and it made front page!”
>
> Erica: You are fucking with me right now.
>
> Benn. I am not.
>
> Bill: We’re just trying to help you get through this, Erica. Think about it--
>
> Erica: By bringing my fucking ex?! In what way are you “helping me”?!
>
> Tobin: Erica, it’s okay, we made it to Series B.
>
> Erica: What?! Ex-boyfriend, not ex-coworker, you dipshit.
>
> Tobin: Oh.
>
> Benn: It’s also affecting us too. I know you don’t say it, but I can feel you scorning me because I work on a ride-sharing app.
>
> Erica: I just don’t think any of that shit matters.
>
> Benn: Oh my god, I--
>
> Bill: Okay, everyone just take a deep breath. Remember, this is about Erica. Let's just try to talk through this. Erica, why do you think Benn’s work doesn’t matter?
>
> Erica: Okay, sorry, it matters. I just think Benn can do so much better. Like, look what I made last night: A food app with cultural integrity. The restaurants around us are destroying food culture! Just the other day, another Mexican restaurant opened up on the Mission by a white person.
>
> > We don't ever talk about food and it's origin. We just look on Yelp and pick anything above 3 stars! That's not a world I want to live in.

Everyone fell silent.

Commit message:

doing some character development of erica

designintervention.md, after:

# design intervention
Main character:
Erica went to design school thinking that design was the perfect blend of science and art. She believed that design can truely improve people's lives.
On the first day of Graphic Design I, the teacher asked the class why they chose design.

"So who wants to go first?"
Erica stood up and said, " I believe that design can make a positive impact on people and I want to be part of that".
She sat down and smiled at the teacher.
"Okay, next?"
"Well, I just want to be a designer, because artists don't make any money."
Everyone in the class had similar answers.

This became a theme for the rest of Erica's college life, but she left college with the same belief. She wanted to be impactful. She wanted to help people and she didn't care about money.

~~Current day~~
Erica tries her best at everything. She does hackathons on weekends and teams would fight over her. "We need a designer!", they say. But many times, they just want to add her on Facebook.




----
2am.

Erica closed all her tabs,shut her eyes and cleared her mind. She could feel the blue light leaving her body, at least she she thought it was.

She opened her eyes and clicked on an orange diamond icon. She scrolled through the fonts and picked a font called:

> Neue Haas Unica! Haven’t used this one before! Finally, I can put that $400 to good use.

Erica spent the next 2.5 hours experimenting with this font. Adjusted line-spacing. Set a comfortable line-length, never extending beyond 75 characters. Fixed the spacing between individual characters on larger font sizes.

3:43am.

> Erica: Fuck, I always do this on Sunday. Ugh, I’m going to be late tomorrow. 9AM is too early for people to be working.

Erica was not late to work the next day, but this was not the Monday she was expecting.

As Erica approaches the door, she notices how awkwardly silent the office is. Erica quickly brushed it off.

> Erica(chucking): Ha, and I thought EYE was going to be late for work.”

Erica was proud that not only did she start her side project last night, but she also arrived to work on time. Double productivity, challenge complete.

When she entered the office, familiar faces were sitting in a circle. All eyes locked on to her as the door slammed shut.

> Erica: "Umm, what's going on? I don't remember the stand-up being moved to 10. And why is Tobin here?"
>
> Bill: "Erica, we decided to cancel work today for something more pressing."
>
> Benn: "Yeah, we realized that you're struggling with--I don't know...how do we describe it.?
>
> Bill: "You want your designs to make the world a better place, but you can't. And so you go on Twitter and rant about it. You even wrote that long Medium post. We're all very worried about you, Erica."
>
> Benn: "Yeah and you make everyone feel like shit!"

Erica rolled her eyes and tried to play it cool, but she was furious inside. How dare they throw this at me like this. Ugh, just a bunch of privileged cis white males.

She wanted to seem like she could hold her own fort though, so she started to look for cracks in their attack.

> Erica: Benn, what is that on your lap? Is that a....manual?
>
> Benn (excitedly): Ah yes! I made this last week after Denise’s intervention went so well. I posted it on Dribbble too and it made front page!”
>
> Erica: You are fucking with me right now.
>
> Benn. I am not.
>
> Bill: We’re just trying to help you get through this, Erica. Think about it--
>
> Erica: By bringing my fucking ex?! In what way are you “helping me”?!
>
> Tobin: Erica, it’s okay, we made it to Series B.
>
> Erica: What?! Ex-boyfriend, not ex-coworker, you dipshit.
>
> Tobin: Oh.
>
> Benn: It’s also affecting us too. I know you don’t say it, but I can feel you scorning me because I work on a ride-sharing app.
>
> Erica: I just don’t think any of that shit matters.
>
> Benn: Oh my god, I--
>
> Bill: Okay, everyone just take a deep breath. Remember, this is about Erica. Let's just try to talk through this. Erica, why do you think Benn’s work doesn’t matter?
>
> Erica: Okay, sorry, it matters. I just think Benn can do so much better. Like, look what I made last night: A food app with cultural integrity. The restaurants around us are destroying food culture! Just the other day, another Mexican restaurant opened up on the Mission by a white person.
>
> > We don't ever talk about food and it's origin. We just look on Yelp and pick anything above 3 stars! That's not a world I want to live in.

Everyone fell silent.
