# IN PROGRESS
# LITERALLY DO NOT WANT ANY FEEDBACK YET
# STAY IN YOUR LANE

# Video Games as Egalitarian Philosophical Forum
## by Morgane Santos

Abstract: Sci-fi video games create space to explore questions about ethics, morality, and philosophy, as they are often grounded in contemporary culture and can be considered as ultra-elaborate thought experiments. Through the guise of pure entertainment, modern sci-fi games allow players to navigate difficult moral dilemmas or even simply reconsider their own reality, with greater success than typical philosophical writing. This egalitarian playground can become a very intentional forum for philosophical thought, if we let it.


~~ RESEARCH: https://github.com/dark-industries/syllabus

## Basic definitions
Before we begin, it's important to define a few terms.

philosophy:
_the study of the fundamental nature of knowledge and existence_

video game:
_a game played on a computer_

science fiction:
_fiction based on imagining future events, technological developments, or cutting edge scientific ideas (particularly around quantum mechanics)_

ethics:
_moral principles that govern personal or group behavior_

morality:
_principles concerning the distinction between right and wrong_

good:
_that which is virtuous, commendable, self-less_

evil:
_that which is sinful, reprehensible, selfish_

## Dispelling bias
As I was writing this article and describing it to people, they would often hear the words "video games" and "ethics" and immediately jump to the conclusion that this was about whether video games were ethical. Indeed this is a hot topic of debate, which even has its own [wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Video_game_controversies). This article is not about that, and I have nothing to say about that topic.

However, it's worth noting that this idea of "violence and video games" also relies on stereotypes about who gamers even are: presumably, solitary young white men with an ax to grind. According to [one report](http://www.theesa.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/ESA-Essential-Facts-2015.pdf) on gamer demographics, the average player is actually 35 years old, and 44% of all gamers are female. In fact, there are more adult women playing games than teenage boys (33% versus 15%). According to a [Pew survey](http://www.pewinternet.org/files/2015/12/PI_2015-12-15_gaming-and-gamers_TOPLINE.pdf), about half of white adults, half of black adults, and half of hispanic adults play video games.

In other words, video games are remarkably egalitarian. This equality provides an ideal platform for learning, since it has the potential to reach an incredibly diverse audience. 

Compare that to, say, the demographics of university philosophy departments. Only [30%](http://kieranhealy.org/files/misc/phil-by-discipline.pdf) of PhD philosophy degrees go to women, an overwhelming majority of philosophy students are [white](http://www.humanitiesindicators.org/content/indicatordoc.aspx?i=266), and it doesn't get any better amongst [professors](http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/09/02/women-in-philosophy-do-the-math/). Not to mention that going to college is not feasible for everyone. The pursuit of knowledge, it seems, is only for white men.

Unless you return to video games. What we can't teach in a university classroom--one full of young white men who can afford to major in philosophy--we can teach in video games, played by 40-year-old women, teenage Latinos, and yes, even those young white men we so love to demonize. Video games are for everyone.

Now that I've convincingly and adroitly proved to you why video games are better than college, let's explore what exactly these games are teaching us anyhow.


## Mass Effect and the trolley problem
Mass Effect is nothing if not an endless series of trolley problems. What can we learn from constantly having to choose who lives and dies? From having to choose between different shades of grey? When "good" and "bad" are unclear, how do we decide anything, and then live with the consequences?

## Life is Strange and playing god
Life is Strange lets players rewind time, messing with the "very fabric of spacetime" in a way that essentially lets you play god. It's eventually revealed that this was an extremely bad thing to do, and hints at the idea of, basically, mortals staying in their lane. But we always like to play god, especially at the bleeding edge of science. At what point do we limit ourselves and our society, and at what point is it necessary to push beyond our current capabilities?

## Dreamfall Chapters and decision making, personally and socially
While not unique to Dreamfall Chapters, its decision tree is one of the more elaborate ones, and at the end of each chapter it'll show how you decisions compared to others players', letting you see patterns between your own value judgments and society's. What can we learn from seeing this comparison? Especially since some decisions are 50/50, while some skew heavily to one side. What does individuality mean? What does community? How independent should we be?

## KOTOR 2 and ambiguous morality
KOTOR 2 is one of the finest examples of amorality. Your mentor in the game is neither good nor evil, and it's often touted as a very morally complex game. What are heroes (Jedi) in a world where good isn't always beneficial, or even the right choice? Can evil sometimes be correct? Is neutrality perhaps the best stance?

## Other possible games and topics
- The Stanley Parable and the idea of trust
- Kentucky Route Zero and the importance of empathy and perspective (maybe more fantasy than sci-fi: should this JUST be about sci-fi games?)
- Morrowind and culture and politics (definitely fantasy and not sci-fi-- could honestly be a whole piece on its own)
- Portal and the shifting nature of evil.

##Conclusion
Games are fun and also can learn us things.
